test
# Title of Your Final Project Here
## INFO 201 "Foundational Skills for Data Science" — Winter 2022

Authors: Sára Mustre-del Río, Amaya Whitney, Li Lin, Sander Lush

Link: [Our Shiny App](https://sara-mustredr09.shinyapps.io/final-project-group6-be/)

Please create the necessary files for your multi-page Shiny app in this GitHub repository. Consult the Canvas assignment for more details. Be sure to publish your app on Shinyapps.io.

When you are finished, please add the text from your introductory and concluding pages below. You might want to use this GitHub repository as part of your digital portfolio, so you want this README.md to offer a brief description of the project and key takeaways.

Feel free to delete these instructions for your final README.md file and to make your GitHub repository public if you would like others to be able to see it.

# Introduction

Education has always been one of the most important topics among the world. It is good to see that the educational attainment of the whole population has increased for the past few years. However, differences and gaps between the races still remain, or even worse, grow. In contemporary society, educational attainment could be one of the vital determinants of a person's future path. To put it into the specific scenario, a decent education could help the person to have better job opportunities and the possibility to apply for higher wages. Beyond the economic elements, those who fail to graduate from high school are more likely to have health problems, worse housing, unhappy families, etc., compared with those who are "highly educated."

If a person's future is highly dependent on his/her educational attainment, and it would be affected by some demographic reasons; In other words, one's future is determined by his/her ethnicity. The injustice a person will undergo is formed since his/her birth. As a bad consequence, it is undeniable that many situations like this would make people be disappointed and less confident about the meaning of education. Therefore, by focusing on Washington State, we would like to explore how demographic elements affect the educational result for high school students, the level that race is connected to high schoolers' criminal justice system, and how they influence the educational outcomes when they are combined. Hopefully, it is possible to see if there is anything we can do to alleviate such inequality and the negative outcomes it brings

We have aimed to answer these three research questions: - How does race influence educational outcomes for Washington state high schoolers? - To what extent does Washington state high schoolers' involvement with the criminal justice system affect their educational outcomes? - How strongly is race correlated to high schoolers' criminal justice system involvement and high school graduation rates?

Our research questions all aim to find answers about how race and involvement in with the criminal justice system affect education for high schoolers in Washington State. Because we are diving into the concept of race and education, this could have very controversial implications for policymakers in Washington, as education is a very important part in the upbringing of the next generation of minds that will be running our country one day. If it is found that race is a factor in the detriment of young people's high school education experiences, and with that a direct connection to their involvement with the criminal justice system, this will prove to be a major flaw in our education and reform systems within Washington State. We sought to find these answers in all ways that they factor into someone's high school education, whether it be due to discrimination, lack of opportunity, school funding, or any other relevant factors that may contribute to an educational experience.Also, there are a handful of different challenges and limitations that we needed to address in our research in order to come to a reliable conclusion. The first that comes to mind is the areas in which we choose to target within Washington state. Because school districts are usually controlled by the city or county that they reside in, it is important to note any distinctions within these separate areas in order to identify any biases. This also applies to any data that we come across when conducting research about involvement with the criminal justice system and its effect on young people's education outcomes. This could pose a challenge as the extra data that we are looking for may not be readily available in the way that we need it, forcing us to adapt based on the information that we know to be true. Educated inferences were necessary for the sake of answering our research questions which could have possibly limited our findings. However, these are all challenges that can be addressed and should not have kept us from answering our questions about the effects race and criminal justice involvement have on young people's education outcomes in Washington State High Schools.

# Conclusion / Summary Takeaways

In the analysis, there is not a big difference among the different demographic groups in percentage of justice involved and justice not involved. And the proportion 0.333333333333333 (about 0.33) of not justice involved with HS Diploma (a supposed positive outcome) and the proportion 0.333333333333333(about 0.33) of justice involved with dropouts are exactly the same. As for the data of justice involvement, the only obvious difference is that Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander have a higher percent of justice involvement (about 0.41). And in their academic outcomes, they have a relatively high percent of HS Diploma and a relatively low percent of dropouts (but not the extremes). Moreover, is noticeable that Asians have higher percentages of HS Diplomas, which is a percentage of (about 0.76), while they also have the lowest percent of dropouts (about 0.2). However, like what it is stated above, it is reasonable to speculate that their academic outcome might also be influenced by other elements, such as race and ethnicity. This can explain the influence of the school-to-prison pipeline, which is a “growing pattern of tracking students out of educational institutions, primarily via ―zero tolerance policies, and tracking them directly and/or indirectly into the juvenile and adult criminal justice systems.” The school-to-prison pipeline disproportionately affects Black and brown students the most, given stereotypes about their behavior. Therefore, they are punished more harshly than their white and Asian counterparts. After doing researching this, it is has become evident that reform is needed in order to promote more equality for all races within our school systems.
